Python has libraries that add
functionality to the basic
interpreter of Python.
The point here is that if you put
every capability into every program,
even your smallest programs
would be very small.
By having libraries, these are portions
of Python that are set aside that
are not incorporated into every program.
You can write smaller programs, and
only call in these libraries when
you need their capabilities.
Now, let's take a look at libraries,
and how you use them a little bit.
Here is the key for getting a library in.
You import and you give the name library.
That's saying that import random
will import a random library.
Here's an example of importing it.
Okay, just executing that statement
import in the random capability.
In here, we can execute something of it.
Print random random number.
Random is a method of this random library,
and
it generates a random number between 0 and
1.
If we repeat this, we'll get a different
random number between 0 and 1.
We can repeat it several times, and
it'll keep giving us different numbers,
because it's generating them randomly.
Here is another method
in the random library.
This will generate a random
integer between 3 and 8.
3 might be given and 8 might be given,
you'll be in that range.
So let's do this again, I'm going to
print another random number, say it's 4.
Here's another one, it's 3,
see we've got the lower end.
3 again, they're random so
I never know what's going to come out.
Notice that we did manage to get 3 and
8 in there and
these are generating only integers
3 4 5 6 7 or 8, randomly.
Now let's make use of
another random capability and
write a little program that
will generate a sentence.
Now this is not a very sophisticated
sentence so don't expect too much of it,
but here's what we are going to do.
I'm going to write a run
function sentence.
And it says, a bicycle chews gingerly.
A car shoots gingerly.
A bicycle shoots sweetly.
It generates grammatically correct
sentences, not very sophisticated ones.
It doesn't have a very large vocabulary.
Let's look and see how this works.
We have a list of verbs and
just put these in,
cook, goes, cooks, shoots,
faints, chews, screams.
It has a list of nouns,
bear, lion, mother, so on.
Has a list of adverbs.
And it has a list of articles.
And it would generate
a random English sentence.
So what we do in the function is,
first of all we create a random article.
Now, one of the methods
of random is choice.
That means it will randomly choose
one of the items out of that list.
We randomly choose an article,
we randomly choose one of the nouns,
we randomly choose one of the verbs,
we randomly choose one of the adverbs,
then we put together our sentence.
The sentence is always going to
be an article, followed by space,
followed by a noun, followed by space,
followed by a verb,
followed by space, followed by an adverb,
with a period on the end.
Just to make it look more like a sentence
we're going to use a method of stings
called Capitalize that will
capitalize the first letter.
So that it actually looks like a sentence.
And then we'll print the sentence.
And that's what it does.
In this case,
it generated a random article, this,
then a random named bicycle
then a random verb shoots, and
then a random adverb sweetly.
We put that together to make
a sentence with spaces and a period.
And then we capitalize the first
letter and then we printed it out.
That's a simple little function
making use of the library, random.
Now you're going to adapt this program
to write a simple four-line poem.
Here's the function repeated again so
that you can modify it
to write a simple poem.
Everything inside this simple poem is
exactly what's in previous sentence,
but you need to write a loops so
that it goes through and
generates four sentences, and
then we will call that point.
Now in order to do that you are going to
have to enclose this in a loop, and
that means you need
indent all these lines.
Now, I want to call your
attention to the edit function,
which has an indent capability.
If I highlight this, for
example, I'll indent everything.
There it moved it all over,
if I unindent I can move it all back.
So you write a function that
writes a simple poem by adapting
our sentence function or
adapting this copy of it right here.
Let me show you my example so
that you'll know where you're going.
Here is my solution,
there is one run of a simple poem,
here's another run,
here's a different poem each time.
Now you go write yours and
when you've finished it,
press Continue and
I'll show you our solution.
Here is my solution.
I simply moved everything over and
put a loop around it.
For i in the range 4, that's 0 through 4.
Just does all the whole thing.